Dear Editor and Reviewers,

Thank you for accepting the article with minor revisions for publication in
PeerJ. We appreciate the thorough feedback and are happy to make the next
revision of the paper that much better. Below we address all of the comments.

Editor Comments
===============

   Please give a context and objective to the work, as noted by Reviewer 1 and
   2. This could stem from the funder driven requirement to share data openly
   (as suggested by R.3), but I am sure the data was generated and analysed for
   one or more specific research questions or hypotheses.

We have expanded the paragraph in the first version to clarify the context and
objective of the work. The research questions and hypotheses we had in mind
when designing the experiments are now included.

   Please address R2 and R3's specific comments to authors.

We have addressed all of the specific comments. Please see below.

Reviewer #1 (Morgan Sangeux)
============================

   The authors of the submission wish to share a comprehensive set of data
   related to the analysis of normal gait. I believe the data will be valuable
   for the gait/biomechanics community and I appreciate the work of the authors
   as well as their willingness to help others.

Thank you, we also believe that this data will be valuable to the relevant
communities.

   However, I do not think the proposed manuscript represent a 'unit of
   publication'.

We understand that this manuscript is not a typical submission because it only
focuses on the experimental methods and data description, but we kindly
disagree with your opinion that this does not "represent a 'unit of
publication'". Data papers are not yet common, but also not rare. The Wikipedia
entry (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_paper) gives some context to the
relatively new push for recognizing "Data Papers" as a valid "unit of
publication". This of course is being discussed and implemented by academic
communities, journals, and granting agencies. For example, the NSF which
partially funded this work now requires submissions to include a "data
management plan". PeerJ does not seem to have an official stance on whether it
publishes Data Papers, but the editorial office approved the scope of this
paper when I enquired before submitting. We are intentionally not including
analyses, results, and findings from this data in this paper but will be
publishing those in subsequent papers which will cite portions of the dataset
herein.

   I suspect these data were collected for a purpose but this purpose is absent
   from the manuscript.

Our introduction went into great detail about the two main purposes for
collecting the data:

1. To add a substantial amount of open and unrestricted data to the public.
2. To collect enough gait data rich in varied motion so that it may be useful
   for control identification and learning methods.

Nevertheless, we have worked to improve the description of the purpose of
collecting the data and been more specific about our research questions and
hypotheses.

   As mentioned in basic reporting, there is no research question and therefore
   I do not think it can join the scholarly literature as is. I would strongly
   encourage the authors to re-submit their work/data as part of a paper WITH a
   research question.

See above, we have added more specific research questions.

Reviewer #2 (Paul Lee)
======================

   The submission should be ‘self-contained,’ should represent an appropriate
   ‘unit of publication’, and should include all results relevant to the
   hypothesis. Coherent bodies of work should not be inappropriately subdivided
   merely to increase publication count.
   (I am concern about this point, as this manuscript described an open-source
   data of gait movement, without any data analysis or hypothesis testing.
   Although I agree that the data are useful and worth publication, the authors
   could divide the results of their study for few more papers.)

Thank you for pointing this out. We had not seen this on the PeerJ website.

Before submitting the paper we enquired with the editorial office as to whether
a "Data Paper" was appropriate for PeerJ and they said that it was, so we
submitted. We intentionally are not including data analysis and hypothesis
testing because we believe the data can be used to test many hypotheses and
support more analyses than we can ever do. We do have some hypotheses of our
own but plan to publish the related results in a separate publication. We agree
one should not be allowed to extract the methods section of just any paper and
publish separately, but we believe that we have gone much further than any
typical methods section in the description of our experiments and the data and
thus this is suitable to stand on its own.

   The submission must describe original primary research within the Scope of
   the journal.
   (The authors mentioned that the objective of this study was to provide a
   rich gait movement data with fluctuations in speed, and I don't believe this
   was a primary research.)
   The submission should clearly define the research question, which must be
   relevant and meaningful.
   (Please see response above)

As mentioned above, PeerJ approved the scope of our paper before we submitted
it. Our work is original and if the Wikipedia definition of "primary research"
is correct, we believe it also meets that:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_research.

   Table 1. Why subject ID 1 trialled 1.2 m/s for three times but did not
   trialled 0.8 m/s and 1.6 m/s?

Subject 1 was a preliminary subject and was used to see if the protocol worked
and the data collected was satisfactory. We only recorded data for one speed,
but did three trials. We included this dataset because they are the only trials
that included lateral perturbations and we felt that the valid kinematic data
may be useful to future researchers.

   Page 4, line 120. Why the participants were required to wear a baseball cap?

We attached three markers to the subjects' head. For the marker protocol used,
these markers are best suited to locations that are typically covered by the
subject hair. Ideally, we'd shave the subject's hair and attached the marker
directly to the skin but we felt this was unnecessary because our research
motivations are primarily rooted in discovery control mechanisms and we do not
have strong evidence that the head orientation is a major contributor. So we
decided, to collect the head marker data but sacrifice accuracy and place them
on a securely fitting baseball cap.

   Page 15, line 374. Why didn't the authors recode the trial numbers from 40
   onwards to 37, 38, ...?

The trial numbers were not recoded because our protocol for raw data is to
leave it as is. The more raw data is manipulated, the more likely errors are
introduced. We wanted to provide the public as "raw" a view of the data as
possible. The trial numbers provided have not cause us any issues in processing
and we do not see it as a major issue.
